Welcome back.
So we just received all the data from Hacker News at least on the page that we requested and we saw
here that we received all this HMO information which is great.
This is just a string that we received.
What beautiful soup allows us to do is to do something called Pass.
That is we can use beautiful soup to convert this from a string to an actual object that we can manipulate
and use using Python to modify this data to what we want.
Let me show you what I mean.
So we can now use beautiful soup I'm going to remove the tax here and we can say beautiful soup.
And then in here I can give it the string that we want with all the data that is response dot text like
we saw which is the one on the left here and then we pass it.
That is we tell it hey this data needs to be modified into ECMO that we can actually use.
So the way we do that with beautiful soup is we simply say a e-mail dot parser and this tells beautiful
soup that hey this is e-mail and I want you to pass it.
So converted from a string to something that we can actually use.
And this creates what we call a soup object.
So I'm going to assign it to a soup variable but I can call it whatever I want.
Now some of you might be asking what this really is.
And the reason that we have to do this is that beautiful soup also passes another data called excel.
And again if we go to the documentation Web site let's go to beautiful soup documentation and let's
just search for a small dot parser.
You see over here that we can have different parsers such as the HMO parser which comes built in.
But there's also the maximal parser and other parsers that we can install.
So again anytime you have a question always referred to the documentation and just control off and you'll
find any extra information you need ninety nine percent of the time you're just using the HDMI parser
as the default.
But what does that mean.
What did this just do for us.
Well let's have a look.
If I print here the soup object that we just created and let's go all the way down here.
Let's clear this for now and run our Python code again scraped up by right.
We see here that we got the soup object.
It's actually a little bit cleaner.
It's no longer a string.
You see here that it's in full a symbol we have the title we have the had we have the body tag so we
can actually manipulate this as if it's well a python object.
So for example I can do soup dot body to grab just the body.
So if I save and I run the script again.
There you go.
We now just received the body.
Let me clear this so we can see it.
I'm going to run it again.
You see that now we have just the body.
I can even do something like dot contents and if I run this let's clear this again
I get the entire content but you see here in a list for awesome.
Now using this soup object we can do some really neat things.
For example let's say I want to find using the Find all method all the divs that we have in this soup
object.
So if I save let's clear this and run our script how cool is that we get all the div objects in a list
for that's contained on that page.
What about all the links maybe we want to get all the tags which are the links of the site.
Well once again let's clear this for now and run our script and look at that.
We have all the eight tags.
That is all the links on the page and you can imagine there's different uses that we can do here we
can say Title 5 run title here we get the title tag of our soup object if I do something like a here
which is the a tag and I run the script again I'll get the first a tag that comes up another one that
we can do is something called Find.
So instead of find all find finds the well the first thing.
So again if I do find a and I click Run here you see that I get the same thing.
It finds the first item.
Now why is this useful.
Because if we go to our hacker news Web site and what I want to do is let's say go to the first link
here right click it and then do inspect.
This gives us well this HMO Dom object that gives us all the information on the page.
Right.
So looking at this I know that for sure I'm going to want this a tag that has the link and the title
but I'm also probably going to want the votes right.
So if I keep going down here
to this part you see here that right here is the score and I'm probably going to be interested in how
many points this is as well.
For example I can use the I.D. attribute here so let's copy this score.
I can even do something like find and give it an I.D. that equals this value.
If.
Now let's clear all and run the file you see that I get that exact same tag with the idea of this score
so by allowing us to grab these different elements throughout the page we can selectively pick what
data we want.
Let's take a break here and learn more in the next video.